---
layout: job
title: "Lecturer"
organization: "Salahaddin University-Erbil"
organization-short: "SUE"
date: 2018-01-03
start_date: 2018
end_date: Now
background: "/img/jobs/academy.jpg" # business.jpg academy.jpg
category: academy # business academy
permalink: /job/lecturer-sue
---

## Highlights

- **Job Title:** _{{page.title}}_
- **Organization:** _{{page.organization}}_
- **Start Date:** _{{page.start_date}}_
- **End Date**: _{{page.end_date}}_

## Job Duties

As I get to the lecturer's position at the Salahaddin University-Erbil, I got into multiple duties and responsibilities that have aspects of administration and management. So the duties that I have took throughout these few last years are:

1. of course the teaching is still there, I have taught:

   - [Advanced Programming](/academy/lecture/advanced-programming/) for BSc Software Engineering students.
   - [Advanced Database](/academy/lecture/advanced-database/) for BSc Software Engineering students.
   - [computer vision](/academy/lecture/computer-vision/) for MSc Software Engineering students.
   - [Data Mining](/academy/lecture/data-mining/) for MSc Software Engineering students.

1. Supervising senior students graduation projects.
1. Supervising MSc students projects.
1. Head of Examination Committee for the year 2019-2020.
1. Head of Department's Quality Assurance 2020-Now.
1. Member of Colleges student disciplinary committee for the year 2020-2021.
1. Member of multiple communities to evaluate MSc and PhD equalization.
1. Member of evaluating software services at the university for the year 2021-2022.
1. Member of ministry's community to evaluate serval new departments at other universities.

## Acquired Experiences

I have gained experience of managing multiple committees which included the task of Maintaining communication between different committees and managing several members of the committee to make sure that the tasks of these committees are run smoothly.
