---
layout: lecture
title: Introduction to Programming
subtitle: Using C++
date: 2010-11-01
background: /img/lecture/cpp.jpg
university: Salahaddin University-Erbil
department: Electrical Engineering Dept.
level: BSc
year: 2010-2012
myStatus: Assistant Lecturer
permalink: /academy/lecture/cpp/
---

## General Information

- **University**: {{page.university}}
- **Department**: {{page.department}}
- **My Status**: {{page.myStatus}}
- **Level**: {{page.level}}
- **Year**: {{page.year}}

## Course Description

Understand the importance of programming languages and how they are used to solve real world Engineering Problems. Being able to write programs in a language is a very important skill for Engineers. Especially using C++ in the field of Electrical Engineering as they can use it for their real time systems and embedded systems.

## Course Objectives

1. To have an appreciation for and understanding of both the achievements of AI and the
   theory underlying those achievements.
1. To have an appreciation for the engineering
   issues underlying the design of AI systems.
1. To have an understanding of the basic issues
   of knowledge representation and blind and heuristic search, as well as an understanding of
   other topics such as minimax, resolution, etc. that play an important role in AI programs.
1. To have a basic understanding on some advanced topics of AI such as learning, natural
   language processing, agents and robotics, expert systems and planning.

## Course Content

- Introduction to the Course
- Computer Programming
- Flow Charts
- Pseudocode
- Algorithms
- Statements
- arithmetic operators
- logical operators
- flow of control
- loops
- functions
- arrays
