---
layout: lecture
title: Artificial Intelligence
subtitle: ""
date: 2019-01-30
background: /img/lecture/AI.png
university: Tishk International University
department: Computer Engineering Dept
level: BSc
year: 2018
myStatus: Visiting Lecturer
permalink: /academy/lecture/ai/
---

## General Information

- **University**: {{page.university}}
- **Department**: {{page.department}}
- **My Status**: {{page.myStatus}}
- **Level**: {{page.level}}
- **Year**: {{page.year}}

## Course Description

This is an introductory course converging basic Artificial Intelligence (AI) concepts and its implementation. The course introduces the fundamental concepts of the discipline first then goes into detail with the practical information necessary to implement some algorithms and strategies. There are many existing examples that imply a sort of intelligence like computer games. Robots. Smart. Washing machines. Digital cameras software that suggests music you might like to listen to etc. The course captures the essence of AI and introduces basic ideas regarding knowledge representation and search algorithms.

## Course Objectives

1. To have an appreciation for and understanding of both the achievements of AI and the
   theory underlying those achievements.
1. To have an appreciation for the engineering
   issues underlying the design of AI systems.
1. To have an understanding of the basic issues
   of knowledge representation and blind and heuristic search, as well as an understanding of
   other topics such as minimax, resolution, etc. that play an important role in AI programs.
1. To have a basic understanding on some advanced topics of AI such as learning, natural
   language processing, agents and robotics, expert systems and planning.

## Course Content

- Introduction to the Course
- Introduction to AI. Definition of AI. Why study AI. Problem Areas that can be solved using AI.
- Search, Problem solving agent.
- Adversarial Search. Game playing.
- Knowledge representation, Propositional Logic
- Logical Reasoning, Backward chaining.
- Expert Systems and Planning
- Introduction to Prolog
- Uncertainty Reasoning
- Machine Learning
- Deep Learning
- Computer Vision
- Philosophical Questions
